Update Apache Beam jobs page (#26)
U8NWXD/oppia-wiki: Apache-Beam-Jobs.md

## Table of contents

* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Running Apache Beam Jobs](#running-apache-beam-jobs)
* [Apache Beam Job Architecture](#apache-beam-job-architecture)
  * [`Pipeline`s](#pipelines)
  * [`PValue`s](#pvalues)
  * [`PTransform`s](#ptransforms)
    * [`ParDo` and `DoFn`](#pardo-and-dofn)
    * [`Map` and `FlatMap`](#map-and-flatmap)
    * [`Filter`](#filter)
    * [`GroupByKey`](#groupbykey)
    * [Example of using `GroupByKey`,`Filter`, and `FlatMap`](#example-of-using-groupbykeyfilter-and-flatmap)
  * [`Runner`s](#runners)
  * [High-level Guidelines](#high-level-guidelines)
* [Case studies](#case-studies)
  * [Case study: `CountAllModelsJob`](#case-study-countallmodelsjob)
  * [Case Study: `SchemaMigrationJob`](#case-study-schemamigrationjob)

## Introduction

[Apache Beam](https://beam.apache.org/) is used by Oppia to perform large-scale datastore operations. There are two types of operations:

* **Batch**: Operations that are designed to be executed _once_ on the current state of the datastore. Here are some examples:

  * Count the number of models in the datastore.

>   * Update the StringProperty values of all models with a specific kind.

Author: done

  * Validate the relationships between models.

* **Continuous**: Operations that are designed to run _indefinitely_ by reacting to updates to the datastore. Here are some examples:

  * Updating the top 10 answers to a lesson every time a new answer is submitted.
  * Generating notifications for the events that users have subscribed to whenever those events change.

> If you're already familiar with Apache Beam, or are eager to start writing a new job, then jump to the [Quick Start](#quick-start). Otherwise, you can read the whole page. If you still have questions after reading, take a look at the [Apache Beam Programming Guide][1] for more details.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're already familiar with Apache Beam or are eager to start writing a new job,  jump to the [case studies](#case-studies). Otherwise, you can read the whole page. If you still have questions after reading, take a look at the [Apache Beam Programming Guide][1] for more details.
```

Author: done

## Running Apache Beam Jobs

These instructions assume you are running a local development server. If you are a release coordinator running these jobs on the production or testing servers, you should already have been granted the "Release Coordinator" role, so you can skip steps 1-3.

1. Sign in as an administrator ([instructions][3]).
2. Navigate to **Admin Page > Roles Tab**.
3. Add the "Release Coordinator" role to the username you are signed in with.
4. Navigate to http://localhost:8181/release-coordinator, then to the **Beam Jobs tab**.
5. Search for your job and then click the **Play button**.
6. Click "Start new job".

![Screen recording showing how to run jobs](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5094060/128743997-70cca5f9-0b76-4294-806e-f65f5df5be95.gif)

## Apache Beam Job Architecture

> Conceptually, an Apache Beam job is just a bunch of steps, each of which transforms some input data into some output data. For example, if you wanted to count the number of interactions are in all of Oppia's explorations, you could break that task down into a series of transformations:

Author: ```suggestion
Conceptually, an Apache Beam job is just a bunch of steps, each of which transforms some input data into some output data. For example, if you wanted to count how many interactions are in all of Oppia's explorations, you could break that task down into a series of transformations:
```

Author: done

> ```text
> +--------------+ Count interactions +-----------------------------+ Sum +-------+
> | Explorations | -----------------> | (exploration, count) Tuples | --> | Count |
> +--------------+                    +-----------------------------+     +-------+
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    .--------------. Count interactions .--------. Sum .-------.
    | Explorations | -----------------> | Counts | --> | Total |
    '--------------'                    '--------'     '-------'

```

- Reformatted the graph to stay consistent with the others.
- This example doesn't require tuples, since we only care about counts, for example:
- ```python
  exp_pcoll
  | beam.Map(lambda exp: len(exp.interactions))
  | beam.CombineGlobally(sum)
  ```

Author: done

For more complicated tasks, Apache Beam supports tasks whose transformations form a [directed acyclic graph](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Directed_acyclic_graph), or "DAG." These are just graphs with no cycles. For example, if you wanted to find the ratio of interactions to cards, you could use this DAG:

> ```text
> +--------------+ Count interactions +-----------------------------+ Sum +------------------+
> | Explorations | -----------------> | (exploration, count) Tuples | --> | Num Interactions |
> +--------------+                    +-----------------------------+     +------------------+
>        |                                                                  |
>        | Count cards +-----------------------------+ Sum +-----------+    | Divide +-----------------------+
>        +-----------> | (exploration, count) Tuples | --> | Num Cards |----+------> | Interactions per card |
>                      +-----------------------------+     +-----------+             +-----------------------+
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    .--------------. Count interactions .-------. Sum .------------------.
    | Explorations | -----------------> | Count | --> | Num Interactions |
    '--------------'                    '-------'     '------------------'
           |                                                    |
           |                                                    |
           |                                                    |
           | Count cards .-------. Sum .-----------.            |
           '-----------> | Count | --> | Num Cards |------------+
                         '-------'     '-----------'            |
                                                                |
                                .----------------------. Divide |
                                | Interactions / Cards | <------'
                                '----------------------'

```

Author: done

Note that the first example we saw, while linear, is still a DAG!

> In Apache Beam, all jobs are represented as these DAGs. The nodes are represented as [`PValue`](#pvalues) objects, and the edges are represented as [`PTransform`](#ptransforms) objects. [`Pipeline`](#pipelines) objects hold the DAGs, and [`Runner`](#runners) objects actually execute the jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Apache Beam, all jobs are represented as these DAGs. The nodes are represented as [`PValue`](#pvalues) objects, and the edges are represented as [`PTransform`](#ptransforms) objects. [`Pipeline`](#pipelines) objects manage the DAGs, and [`Runner`](#runners) objects actually execute the jobs.
```

Author: done

> In Apache Beam, all jobs are represented as these DAGs. The nodes are represented as [`PValue`](#pvalues) objects and the edges are represented as [`PTransform`](#ptransforms) objects. [`Pipeline`](#pipelines) objects hold the DAGs, and [`Runner`](#runners) objects actually execute the jobs.

Author: ```suggestion
In Apache Beam, all jobs are represented as these DAGs. The nodes are represented as [`PValue`](#pvalues) objects, and the edges are represented as [`PTransform`](#ptransforms) objects. [`Pipeline`](#pipelines) objects hold the DAGs, and [`Runner`](#runners) objects actually execute the jobs.
```

Author: done

```

You might be wondering what's going on with the `|` and `>>` operators. In Python, objects can change how operators apply to them. Apache Beam has changed what the `|` and `>>` operators do, so `|` doesn't perform an OR operation anymore. Instead, `|` is a synonym for calling a `PCollection`'s `.apply()` method with a `PTransform` to create a new `PCollection`. `>>` lets you name a `PTransform` step, which helps document your job. Note that at the very beginning, we also use `|` between the pipeline object and a `PTransform` to start building the job.

### `PValue`s

`PCollection`s are the primary input and output `PValue`s used by `PTransform`s. They are a kind of `PValue` that represent a dataset of (virtually) any size, including unbounded and continuous datasets.

`PBegin` and `PEnd` are "terminal" `PValue`s that signal that the value cannot be produced by an operation (`PBegin`) or that no operation can act on the value (`PEnd`). For example, a `Pipeline` object is a `PBegin`, and the output of a write operation is a `PEnd`.

### `PTransform`s

Recall that `PTransform`s represent the "edges" of the DAG and convert `PValue`s into other `PValue`s.

#### `ParDo` and `DoFn`

> `DoFn`s are the most-basic kind of `PTransform`s, and they are invoked on elements of a `PCollection` using `beam.ParDo`. Calling `ParDo` is analogous to the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ParDo` is the most flexible `PTransform`. It accepts `DoFn`s, simple functions, as arguments and apply them to all elements of the input `PCollection` in parallel. It also accepts functions and lambda functions as arguments.
```

Author: done

)
```

### `Runner`s

> `Runner`s provide the run() method used to visit every node (`PValue`) in the pipeline's DAG by executing the edges (`PTransform`s) to compute their values.  At Oppia, we use `DataflowRunner` to have our `Pipeline`s run on the [Google Cloud Dataflow service](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow).

Author: ```suggestion
`Runner`s provide the `run()` method used to visit every node (`PValue`) in the pipeline's DAG by executing the edges (`PTransform`s) to compute their values.  At Oppia, we use `DataflowRunner` to have our `Pipeline`s run on the [Google Cloud Dataflow service](https://cloud.google.com/dataflow).
```

Author: done

### High-level Guidelines

**TL;DR**: Inherit from `base_jobs.JobBase` and override the `run()` method.

* The `run()` method must return a `PCollection` of `JobRunResult` instances.

>   * In English, this means that **the job _must_ report _something_ about what was done during its execution.** This can be the errors it discovered, or the number of successful operations it was able to perform. **Empty results are forbidden!**

Author: ```suggestion
  * In English, this means that **the job _must_ report _something_ about what was done during its execution.** For example, this can be the errors it discovered or the number of successful operations it was able to perform. **Empty results are forbidden!**
```

Author: done
